So, to use the API,
Credential Management API,
the first step will be that after,
for example, on post login,
so after we are logged in,
we can try to save the current details.
At least if we have a password,
but we can use it in postLogin,
because maybe we want to
do after register as well.
But also after logging because maybe the
user is logging in with new credentials in
this computer for the first time.
So it's not registering
an account on that device.
Maybe that account comes from
another device or from the past.
So on postLogin,
I can try to before or after let's
do it after because it feels like say
Credential Management API Storage.
So, again, what's our goal?
Auto-login without the token,
without saving a token.
I want an auto-login that is not
involving authorization techniques.
So, first,
how to check if the API is there?
So, one would say, okay,
let's try navigator credentials.
But if I'm doing this,
Safari will give me a false positive.
Because in Safari we do have navigator
credentials, but not for what we want.
Just for WebAuthn.
So we're going to check if
the password credential
constructor or class if you want exists.
With capital P because it's like a class,
it's a JavaScript constructor.
So if it exists and
if our user has a password.
Because maybe we don't have a password
because we are logging in the user
from other place where
the password is not there.
So if we have this situation and
by the way,
now we should change this
as well because now we
are not passing the password to postLogin.
Remember I mentioned that,
maybe you don't want to do that well
now we have a use case we need
the password for a couple of more seconds.
So instead of doing this I'm going to
just pass the whole user, make sense?
Because now I have something
else to do with the password.
So I'm passing the password.
So if I have in the password now I can try
I can call navigator credential.store and
we need to pass a credentials
object that I need to create.
Okay, the credentials object,
we need to use the constructor
password credential.
And by the way, I have a problem here.
This is not going to work.
This is my fault.
So I'm taking full responsibility,
is not navigator password credential is
window because it's a global constructor.
Okay, so that's why here I just
say new password credential.
And I'm going to pass an object with,
it can contain ID.
So I will take the ID user email,
the password,
that I can take the password from
the user and also has an optional name.
So this is the name of that account.
It can be the user's name or
it can be any string.
This name will appear in
the password manager.
So the idea is that when if the user
has a lot of accounts well,
I have John, Jane, okay?
I have all the names.
That's, why, in this case, I can pass
the name or I can pass the email.
So I can, I can reuse the email.
It's up to you.
And by the way,
because you can see this is pretty simple.
You can actually copy these and
try these in the console.
I mean,
you can fake pretty quickly in Chrome or
let me open like as to show
you a different browser.
I can open the console and
we can try to see
if navigator.credentials exist.
And if I can post or not.
Okay, from here, so
you can try this directly in your browser.
We are there so
now every time we log in this will try
to save my account into credential.
How do I know if this is working?
Typically you don't know
quickly if it's working or not.
But in this case,
let me login again frontend masters,
I should start saving my passwords so
it's easy to get in.
So you're going to see so
one way in Chrome to see if
the API is actually working.
Is a key that icon that you
will see in the omnibox, okay?
So there you will see that
your passwords may be saved.
So that's the UI that Chrome
shows us right now, okay?
Make sense?
Also, if I go to the console,
I can try navigator credentials.
Let me move this out a little bit.
I will do something else.
Like they're logging frontend masters.
So I can save the password.
And now I can see all the passwords
that were saved in my website.
So if I log out and
I create a new account, another one.
So this is going to be Jane.
My email that you
jane@gmail.com fortunately,
we are not sending emails so
I can use a strong password or not.
Jane 1234, not a good password.
I'm registering the account and
look at this.
It's said, hey, Jane 1234,
was already leaked as a password.
So here you can see that Chrome,
the same happens in Safari because
they're using password managers.
They're seeing your password and say, hey,
that password has been found in a breach.
That means that maybe the hashed
version of it is already in the breach.
So, even if someone is hacking now
my server, even if it's a hash,
it will take your password anyway, okay?
But now I have both credentials
saved here for my site, okay?
Make sense?
So, now we are saving now we
need to do the reverse operation
that is trying to get this back, okay?
Also, it's a good idea because
we are going to implement
these order login is a good idea
to express something on logout.
Okay, because if the user is logging out.
It's expressing that you want to log out.
We don't want to auto-log in next
time because it's kind of weird.
So when you click log out, the API,
Credential Management API,
is offering us a way to express that
we don't want auto-log in next.
So if I go, to log out,
first I can check if password
credential exists so
if the API is there we're
going to call navigator
credentials prevent silent access.
So until the next time you log in,
it will prevent an auto-log
in known as a silent access.
By the way, we are covering
Credential Management API, but
while we mentioned that
it's not in Safari.
If you ask me, I don't bet that Safari
will implement it, in the future.
And there is a good chance that also
maybe in a couple of years that API will
be deprecated, this API.
Because everything is moving to pass keys
and what we are going to cover next.
So I think that that will
change in the future also.
Google and Chrome,
they are deprecating on a very,
let's say scary thing they have I'm
not sure if you have seen this.
You go to a website, any website wherever
for the first time in your life.
I've seen this in many
airline hotel websites, or
tourism based websites like Expedia.
It's the first time in your life that
you get to do a website and then you see
at the top right of your screen so they
see your top right you see your photo.
And says something like hey do you want
to sign in as Max with a Google logo.
Which is weird because this is the first
time you're accessing that website, so
what's going on there?
So this is kind of an aggressive
API available from Chrome and
Google to auto-log in on websites
where you have never logged in before.
Okay, it was some kind of an idea of a
one-click sign-in or something like that.
Of course, there is an iframe
there pointing to Google.
That's how Google is getting
your credential, and
then Google is injecting your picture in
the web, but it's kind of weird, okay?
And that's been deprecated for
the future so
that at least that particular way
of of seeing your picture and
websites that you have never been before,
is going to disappear, okay?
So we are not going to even
cover that how to do that.